My POV: you are right about the product architecture, but we need to distinguish dynamic deployment from shared infrastructure. DeployMind should not be designed around a fixed set of applications or hardcoded services such as PostgreSQL and Redis. Those should be examples of what the platform can discover, provision, reuse, and manage dynamically.
Your actual objective is to build a container-first deployment control plane that can handle different kinds of repositories and applications while avoiding unnecessary duplicate containers and resource consumption on a VPS.
The report's security findings about PostgreSQL and Redis were intended to flag implementation risks in the current code—not to suggest that DeployMind should permanently hardcode those technologies or create a separate database container for every application.
1. The architecture I think you should build
Repository / Application
Git URL, branch or pinned commit, Dockerfile, Compose, manifests, dependency evidence


Dynamic Application Analyzer
Detect runtime, services, ports, dependencies, persistent data, resource needs and uncertainty


Resource Planner + Policy Engine
Reuse compatible resources, provision missing ones, enforce isolation and capacity limits


Container Runtime — user-owned VPS
App A
Web/API


App B
Worker/API


Shared infrastructure pool
Compatible database, cache, message broker and other services—only where appropriate



Containers remain isolated where required; sharing a resource does not mean sharing every connection, credential or network.


The important distinction is that DeployMind manages applications, containers, and infrastructure resources as separate concepts. It should not assume that every application needs its own copy of every dependency—or that every dependency should be shared.
2. What should be dynamic, and what should be shared?
I would split resources into three categories.
Resource category	Default behavior	When sharing makes sense
Application runtime	Separate container per independently deployed application/service	Only when they are genuinely the same managed workload and the lifecycle/security implications are understood
Stateful infrastructure	Reuse a compatible existing instance or provision a new one	When version, capacity, security, configuration and lifecycle requirements are compatible
Supporting services	Reuse, share or provision based on discovered requirements	When sharing is supported and does not create a security or operational conflict
For example, suppose you deploy five applications.

Five application services
Each independently deployable service gets its own container and lifecycle.




One compatible database instance
Applications receive separate database credentials and appropriately isolated databases or schemas.




One compatible cache instance
Applications receive isolated access according to the cache engine's supported security model.



This is an illustrative deployment, not a rule that every five applications must use exactly one database or cache. Some applications may not need a database at all; others may require incompatible versions or dedicated infrastructure.
3. The conditions for reusing a service
This is where DeployMind's resource planner becomes important.
A resource should be reused only when the relevant checks pass:
Compatibility
Engine, version, required extensions, configuration and protocol are compatible with the new application.


Capacity
The instance has sufficient memory, connections, storage, CPU headroom and other relevant limits.


Isolation
The new application can be isolated using the engine's supported permissions, credentials, network policies and resource boundaries.


Lifecycle compatibility
Stopping, updating or deleting one application will not accidentally break other applications using the shared instance.


Policy and reliability
Backup, restore, persistence, upgrade and recovery requirements can be satisfied for every dependent application.



If any mandatory check fails, DeployMind should not reuse that resource. It should provision a compatible dedicated instance, propose a safe alternative, or ask the user for a decision.
For example, two applications needing compatible PostgreSQL versions might share one PostgreSQL container while using separate databases and users. If another application requires an incompatible major version or a configuration that cannot safely coexist, it needs a different instance.
Redis requires particular care: separate logical database numbers alone do not provide strong tenant isolation. ACLs, key and channel permissions, command restrictions, and verified access patterns matter. If the platform cannot enforce the required isolation, it should not share that instance.
4. Do not hardcode the product around specific technologies
I recommend a generic Resource Registry + Resource Manager, with technology-specific adapters underneath it.

type ResourceRequirement = {
  type: string;
  versionRange?: string;
  capabilities?: string[];
  configuration?: Record<string, unknown>;
  persistenceRequired?: boolean;
  isolationLevel?: "standard" | "strong" | "dedicated";
};

type ResourceCandidate = {
  id: string;
  type: string;
  version: string;
  status: "healthy" | "degraded" | "unavailable";
  capacity: {
    availableMemoryMb?: number;
    availableStorageMb?: number;
    availableConnections?: number;
  };
  capabilities: string[];
  sharingSupported: boolean;
};

type ResourceDecision =
  | { action: "reuse"; resourceId: string; binding: object }
  | { action: "provision"; requirement: ResourceRequirement }
  | { action: "ask_user"; reason: string }
  | { action: "reject"; reason: string };



This is an architectural sketch, not a complete implementation.
The workflow would be:
1. Analyze the repository and its deployment configuration.
2. Discover the resources the application actually needs.
3. Query the registry for compatible, healthy instances.
4. Evaluate capacity, isolation, version compatibility and policy.
5. Reuse an existing instance or provision a new one.
6. Create the application's resource binding and inject only the required credentials.
7. Verify connectivity and application health.
8. Track dependencies so future operations cannot accidentally break other consumers.
PostgreSQL, Redis, RabbitMQ, object storage, and other services would be implemented as adapters, not assumptions embedded in the deployment engine. The adapters describe capabilities and provisioning rules; the generic planner decides which actions are valid.
This does not mean the platform magically supports every possible technology. It means the architecture is extensible, can recognize unsupported requirements, and can abstain safely instead of inventing a deployment plan.
5. How the AI should participate
I would keep three responsibilities separate:
- AI planner: infers requirements from the repository, recommends compatible resources and explains its reasoning.
- Deterministic policy engine: validates compatibility, capacity, isolation, permissions and destructive operations.
- Container executor and observer: performs approved actions and verifies the actual result.
AI should not independently decide that a database is safe to share and immediately connect an application to it. The decision must pass deterministic checks.
The same principle applies to your optional Jev integration: it can recommend reuse or rank candidates, but it should not override security or capacity policies.
6. The operational detail that matters most
Shared infrastructure changes how service toggles and deletion must work.
Suppose App A and App B use the same database instance. If you turn App A off:
- Stop App A's application container.
- Leave the shared database running while App B or another dependent still needs it.
- Preserve App A's database and persistent data.
- Allow App A to reconnect when it is started again.
If you delete App A, remove its owned resources and access bindings only after dependency checks. Do not delete the shared database or its container just because App A was deleted.
DeployMind therefore needs a dependency graph and resource ownership model—not just a list of containers. It should distinguish stopping a workload, deleting an application, deleting its data, and removing a shared resource as four different operations.
My final recommendation
Build DeployMind around these principles:
1. Dynamic discovery: infer application and infrastructure requirements instead of hardcoding application types.
2. Container-first execution: user workloads run in containers; do not silently fall back to executing repository code on the host.
3. Intelligent resource reuse: reuse compatible infrastructure when safe; provision dedicated instances when necessary.
4. Independent application lifecycle: starting or stopping one app must not inadvertently affect other apps.
5. Explicit resource ownership: every container, volume, credential, database binding and network relationship must be tracked.
6. Safe, observable decisions: explain why a resource was reused or created, and verify that the result works.
This aligns with the original goal you described: deploy many different applications on a limited VPS, share suitable infrastructure where possible, and selectively turn workloads on or off to manage capacity. 
The key design decision is not “one container for everything” or “one database per application.” It is: one container per independently managed runtime instance, and as few compatible shared infrastructure instances as the system can safely operate. That gives you dynamic deployment without unnecessary duplication or unsafe sharing.